OBSDOCS-1652: Logging 6.1.2 Release Notes (#88392)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-6-1-2-rn.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/logging-6.1/log6x-release-notes-6.1.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2_{context}"]
= Logging 6.1.2 Release Notes

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:1229[{logging-uc} {for} Bug Fix Release 6.1.2].

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

* This enhancement adds `OTel` semantic stream labels to the `lokiStack` output so that you can query logs by using both `ViaQ` and `OTel` stream labels.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6579[LOG-6579])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug Fixes

* Before this update, the collector alerting rules contained summary and message fields. With this update, the collector alerting rules contain summary and description fields.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6126[LOG-6126])

> * Before this update, the collector metrics dashboard could get removed after an operator upgrade due to a race condition during the transition from the old to the new pod deployment. With this update, labels are added to the dashboard `ConfigMap` to identify the upgraded deployment as the current owner so that it will not be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the collector metrics dashboard could get removed after an Operator upgrade due to a race condition during the transition from the old to the new pod deployment. With this update, labels are added to the dashboard `ConfigMap` to identify the upgraded deployment as the current owner so that it will not be removed.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6280[LOG-6280])

* Before this update, when you included infrastructure namespaces in application inputs, their `log_type` would be set to `application`. With this update, the `log_type` of infrastructure namespaces included in application inputs is set to `infrastructure`.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6373[LOG-6373])

> * Before this update, the Cluster Logging Operator used a cached client to fetch the `SecurityContextConstraint` cluster resource, which could result in an error when the cache is invalid. With this update, the operator now always retrieves data from the API server instead of using a cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Cluster Logging Operator used a cached client to fetch the `SecurityContextConstraint` cluster resource, which could result in an error when the cache is invalid. With this update, the Operator now always retrieves data from the API server instead of using a cache.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/logging-6.1/log6x-release-notes-6.1.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2_{context}"]
= Logging 6.1.2 Release Notes

This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:1229[{logging-uc} {for} Bug Fix Release 6.1.2].

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2-enhancements_{context}"]
== New Features and Enhancements

* This enhancement adds `OTel` semantic stream labels to the `lokiStack` output so that you can query logs by using both `ViaQ` and `OTel` stream labels.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6579[LOG-6579])

[id="logging-release-notes-6-1-2-bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug Fixes

> * Before this update, the collector alerting rules contained summary and message fields. With this update, the collector alerting rules contain summary and description fields.

Reviewer 2: We're using the "Before this update, ... With this update, ..." pattern for the release notes because we got the information from the documentation team that release note items should be written using that pattern. I noticed the duplication a few times already, so if that information is not current anymore, we can change to a different pattern.

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6126[LOG-6126])

> * Before this update, you could remove the collector metrics dashboard after an operator upgrade due to a race condition during the transition from the old to the new pod deployment. With this update, you add labels to the dashboard `ConfigMap` to identify the upgraded deployment as the current owner, preventing you from removing the collector metrics dashboard after an Operator upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Similar to the suggestion in the 6.0 release notes:

```suggestion
* Before this update, the collector metrics dashboard could get removed after an operator upgrade due to a race condition during the transition from the old to the new pod deployment. With this update, labels are added to the dashboard `ConfigMap` to identify the upgraded deployment as the current owner so that it will not be removed.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6280[LOG-6280])

> * Before this update, when you included infrastructure namespaces in application inputs, the `log_type` was set as `application`. With this update, you set the `log_type` of infrastructure namespaces included in application inputs to `infrastructure`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, when you included infrastructure namespaces in application inputs, the `log_type` parameter was set as `application`. With this update, you set `log_type` of infrastructure namespaces included in application inputs to `infrastructure`.
```

- Please use field instead of parameter is it's more suitable

Specify the object name as per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

> * Before this update, when you included infrastructure namespaces in application inputs, the `log_type` parameter was set as `application`. With this update, you set `log_type` of infrastructure namespaces included in application inputs to `infrastructure`.

Reviewer 2: For the first sentence, the "you" is fine, because the user is configuring the input, but I don't think the second sentence is correct:

```suggestion
* Before this update, when you included infrastructure namespaces in application inputs, their `log_type` would be set to `application`. With this update, the `log_type` of infrastructure namespaces included in application inputs is set to `infrastructure`.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6373[LOG-6373])

> * Before this update, a potential race condition related to the creation of the `SecurityContextConstraint` (SCC) caused the Cluster Logging Operator to fail in creating the `logging-scc`. This issue did not always reproduce and could occur during the initialization of the Collector and `LogFileMetricExporter` components.
> With this update, you can use a non-cached client to resolve the issue by retrieving the actual state of the object from the API directly, bypassing any cached objects. This change eliminates unpredictable behavior, allowing the Cluster Logging Operator to reliably create the `logging-scc`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, a potential race condition related to the creation of the `SecurityContextConstraint` (SCC) resource caused the Cluster Logging Operator to fail in creating the `logging-scc` resource. This issue did not always reproduce and could occur during the initialization of the Collector and `LogFileMetricExporter` components.
With this update, you can use a non-cached client to resolve the issue by retrieving the actual state of the object from the API directly, bypassing any cached objects. This change eliminates unpredictable behavior, allowing the Cluster Logging Operator to reliably create the `logging-scc` resource.
```

 - Please use resource vs other suitable object name

Specify the object name as per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

> * Before this update, a potential race condition related to the creation of the `SecurityContextConstraint` (SCC) resource caused the Cluster Logging Operator to fail in creating the `logging-scc` resource. This issue did not always reproduce and could occur during the initialization of the Collector and `LogFileMetricExporter` components.
> With this update, you can use a non-cached client to resolve the issue by retrieving the actual state of the object from the API directly, bypassing any cached objects. This change eliminates unpredictable behavior, allowing the Cluster Logging Operator to reliably create the `logging-scc` resource.

Reviewer 2: I think the shorter version from the 6.0 release notes transports the main message much more efficiently:

```suggestion
* Before this update, the Cluster Logging Operator used a cached client to fetch the `SecurityContextConstraint` cluster resource, which could result in an error when the cache is invalid. With this update, the operator now always retrieves data from the API server instead of using a cache.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6418[LOG-6418])

> * Before this update, the logging `must-gather` did not collect resources such as `UIPlugin`, `ClusterLogForwarder`, `LogFileMetricExporter` and `LokiStack` CR. With this update, these resources are now collected in the respective namespace directory instead of the cluster-logging one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the `must-gather` logging did not collect resources such as `UIPlugin`, `ClusterLogForwarder`, `LogFileMetricExporter`, and `LokiStack`. With this update, the `must-gather` logging collects these resources in the respective namespace directory instead of the `cluster-logging` directory.
```

> * Before this update, the `must-gather` logging did not collect resources such as `UIPlugin`, `ClusterLogForwarder`, `LogFileMetricExporter`, and `LokiStack`. With this update, the `must-gather` logging collects these resources in the respective namespace directory instead of the `cluster-logging` directory.

Reviewer 2: It's not the "logging of the must-gather" but the "must-gather provided by Logging":

```suggestion
* Before this update, the logging `must-gather` did not collect resources such as `UIPlugin`, `ClusterLogForwarder`, `LogFileMetricExporter`, and `LokiStack`. With this update, the `must-gather` now collects all of these resources and places them in their respective namespace directory instead of the `cluster-logging` directory.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6422[LOG-6422])

* Before this update, the Vector startup script attempted to delete buffer lock files during startup. With this update, the Vector startup script no longer attempts to delete buffer lock files during startup.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6506[LOG-6506])

> * Before this update, the API documentation incorrectly claimed that `lokiStack` outputs would default the target namespace, which could prevent the collector from writing to that output. With this update, the updated API documentation now adds a validation that allows the resource only if it has an output target namespace.

Reviewer 2: The documentation and the validation are separate changes:

```suggestion
* Before this update, the API documentation incorrectly claimed that `lokiStack` outputs would default the target namespace, which could prevent the collector from writing to that output. With this update, this claim has been removed from the API documentation and the Cluster Logging Operator now validates that a target namespace is present.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-6573[LOG-6573])

> * Before this update, the operator could deploy the collector with output configurations that were not referenced by any inputs. With this update, the validation fails the `ClusterLogForwarder` in this scenario, preventing the operator from deploying the collector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Operator could deploy the collector with output configurations that were not referenced by any inputs. With this update, the validation fails for the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource in this scenario, preventing the Operator from deploying the collector.
```

Does it mean the validation fails to create the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource OR the validation fails to validate the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource?

Author: > Does it mean the validation fails to create the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource OR the validation fails to validate the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource?

The validation fails to create the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource. 

Originally reported as, This update resolves that by adding a validation to fail the `ClusterLogForwarder` in this scenario so the Operator will no longer deploy the collector.

How about, With this update, a validation fails the `ClusterLogForwarder` in this scenario, preventing the Operator from deploying the collector. WDYT? @xenolinux

Reviewer 3: @jmagak you can write something like this but please confirm with the SME if this is correct:

"With this update, a validation check for the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource prevents the Operator from deploying the collector."

Author: > @jmagak you can write something like this but please confirm with the SME if this is correct:
> 
> "With this update, a validation check for the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource prevents the Operator from deploying the collector."

cc @xperimental

> * Before this update, the Operator could deploy the collector with output configurations that were not referenced by any inputs. With this update, a validation check for the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource prevents the Operator from deploying the collector.

Reviewer 2: I think we should mention which operator:

```suggestion
* Before this update, the Cluster Logging Operator could deploy the collector with output configurations that were not referenced by any inputs. With this update, a validation check for the `ClusterLogForwarder` resource prevents the Operator from deploying the collector.
```
